Title: Flood
flood: nav
license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

# Flood - a profile-driven HTTP load tester  {#Welcome}

Flood is a profile-driven HTTP load tester. It can be used to gather
important performance metrics for your website.

Please see the [FAQ](faq.html) for common questions about flood.

# Getting and using flood  {#Getting}

Please read the [Building flood](building.html) document for a quick
installation guide for flood.

# Example profiles  {#Examples}

Flood's configuration is XML-based. Some of the links below showcase some
of the features available in flood. All of these files are available in the
examples directory in flood's Subversion repository.

-  [Round-robin annotated flood config
example](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/examples/round-robin.xml)
( **Recommended for flood newbies** )

-  [An example using dynamic content-specific
variables](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/examples/round-robin-dynamic.xml) 

-  [An example using
keepalives](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/examples/round-robin-keepalive.xml) 

-  [An example using
SSL](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/examples/round-robin-ssl.xml) 

-  [An example using
timers](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/examples/round-robin-timed.xml) 

-  [A sh/gawk script that shows how to interpret the relative_times output
of
flood](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/examples/analyze-relative) 

# Subversion Access  {#SVN}

You may browse the flood's Subversion repository
[online](http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk/) or via [flood
ViewCVS](http://svn.apache.org/viewcvs.cgi/httpd/flood/trunk) 

Anonymous Subversion access (via WebDAV) is available.
`
% svn co http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/flood/trunk flood
` 

# Mailing Lists  {#Mail}

Our mailing lists are open to the public.

Subscription

-  [dev@httpd.apache.org](mailto:dev-subscribe@httpd.apache.org) -
discussion of what to do

-  [cvs@httpd.apache.org](mailto:cvs-subscribe@httpd.apache.org) - commit
notifications

Archives

-  [dev Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-dev/) 

-  [cvs Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-cvs/) 

-  [dev Archives (Raw)](http://httpd.apache.org/mail/dev/) 

-  [cvs Archives (Raw)](http://httpd.apache.org/mail/cvs/) 

On December 22, 2005, test-dev@httpd.apache.org was merged with
dev@httpd.apache.org. Our old archives are still available.

-  [test-dev
Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-test-dev/) 

-  [test-cvs
Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-test-cvs) 

-  [test-dev Archives (Raw)](http://httpd.apache.org/mail/test-dev/) 

-  [test-cvs Archives (Raw)](http://httpd.apache.org/mail/test-cvs/) 

# License  {#License}

Like all Apache Software Foundation projects, flood is licensed under [The
Apache License](http://www.apache.org/licenses/).

# Search Site  {#Search}

<center><form action="http://search.apache.org/" method="post"><input
type="text" name="keyword" size="40"></input><input type="hidden"
name="results" value="20"></input><input type="hidden" name="what"
value="httpd.apache.org"></input><input type="hidden" name="version"
value="2"></input><input type="submit" value="Search
Site"></input></form></center>

[](/images/apache_pb.gif) 

