Title: Contributing to the Apache HTTP Server Documentation
license: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

# Contributing to the Apache HTTP Server Documentation #

The Documentation Project is an effort to maintain and improve the quality
of the documentation included with the Apache HTTP Server. Participation is
open to anyone willing to write documentation, edit for spelling, grammer
or readability, or [translate](translations.html) documentation into
another language. Some knowledge of the Apache HTTP Server is helpful, but
not required. No programming knowledge is required, so this is a great way
for non-programmers to contribute to the success of the Apache HTTP Server
project, and to have their work read by millions of Apache users.

This is **not** a mailing list where users should ask questions on how to
configure Apache. The [Users List](../userslist.html) is available for that
purpose.

# How to get Involved #

There are several ways that you can contribute to the documentation effort.
You can:

-  [Subscribe to the docs@httpd.apache.org mailing
list](mailto:docs-subscribe@httpd.apache.org) and tell us something that
could be improved.

- Join #httpd on irc.libera.chat and tell us there.

- Submit a ticket to the [bug database](../bug_report.html).

- Check out the documentation from svn ( [instructions here](svn.html) ),
and send us a patch.

There are lots of ways to contribute to the documentation project,
including fixing typos and spelling mistakes, translating the documentation
into other languages, writing tutorials to help new users, or just
expressing your opinion about suggested changes.

For information on our use of XML in the documentation, see our
[Documentation Format and Transformation](docsformat.html) page.

If you need inspiration for something to work on, look at our
[STATUS](https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/httpd/trunk/docs/STATUS)
file for a list of things that we think need doing, and pick something that
you think you can do. Patches against trunk are greatly appreciated, but
contributions in any format are helpful.

# Translation Projects #

Information about translating the documentation into other languages is
available at the [translations page](translations.html).

# Participants #

Some of the participants are:

-  [Erik Abele](http://www.codefaktor.de/) 

-  [Ryan Bloom](http://rkbloom.net/rbb/) 

-  [Rich Bowen](http://www.rcbowen.com/) 

- Vincent Bray

-  [Ken Coar](http://Golux.Com/coar/) 

-  [Eric Cholet](http://www.logilune.com/eric/) 

-  [Tony Finch](http://dotat.at/) 

- Yoshiki Hayashi

-  [Astrid Ke&#223;ler](http://www.kess-net.de/) 

-  [Jason Lingohr](http://geeklog.lucid.net.au/) 

- Andr&#233; L. Malo

-  [Chris Pepper](http://www.reppep.com/~pepper/) 

- Dan Poirier

-  [Noirin Plunkett](http://www.nerdchic.net/) 

- William A. Rowe, Jr.

-  [Joshua Slive](http://slive.ca/) 

-  [Tony Stevenson](http://blog.pc-tony.com/) 

-  [Mads Toftum](http://www.toftum.org/) 

The localized custom error messages in the 2.x version of the Apache HTTP
Server were contributed by

- Ricardo Leite (Brazilian)

- Marcel Kolaja (Czech)

- Peter Van Biesen (Dutch)

- Lars Eilebrecht (English and German)

- Cecile de Crecy (French)

- Luigi Rosa (Italian)

- Noirin Plunkett (Irish)

- Jaeho Shin (Korean)

- Tomasz Kepczynski (Polish)

- Andrei Besleaga (Romanian)

- Nikola Smolenski (Serbian)

- Karla Quintero (Spanish)

- Thomas Sj&#246;gren (Swedish)

- Emre Sokullu (Turkish)

